---
title: "Good Engineering - Agile"
date: 2022-01-27T11:49:14+01:00
draft: true
featured: false
tags: [Hugo, blogging, good engineering, agile]
---

To keep you on track, you need a framework.  A framework that helps you as a team member, to stay focused and be reminded of that iterations goals.  As the name suggests, it has to be an agile framework, one that is robust enough to change or assist the needs of the engineers.  One were the definition of done is reviewed as a matter of protocol and modified accordingly if the current definition does not cater for a new situation or observation.

An effective team will subscribe to the agile manifesto. This ensures the work that is embarked upon and completed, meets the needs of the stackholders (the people the POs capture the requirements from).  As a team member, you produce work that meets a specific requirement.  This requirement will have been captured (if business requirement) by a Product Owner interpreting the requirement from a/the stackholders.  In theory it ensures what was asked of from business is propagated accurately down to the worker bees (engineers in this case).

If for any reason requirements are not meet, the agile framework will be robust enough to capture these reasons so when the roll up reports are created, planned vs achieved will be obvious and so will the reason for why there was a low achieval percentage.  Having the capability is important.  Without it, you'll never known and by 'you' I mean the senior stakeholders (often business owners) why sh*t's not getting done.

It is also incredibly important to get your stakeholders involved in the process.  The idea of a stakeholder just planting a seed then disappearing, to reappearing to then 'rip your team a several new ones' because their vision was not actualised is unacceptable.  I'm not saying they need to be part of the process (inceptions or daily meetings). They just need to be present during the requirements stage.  You can't just take a single conversation and go off and deliver something.  It must be played backed and confirmed that this is the requirement(s). It is paramount to reply back to them constantly during the requirement phase on how their requirements are being interpreted.  Once captured by the POs, it can be then be documented in a series of sprint stories (or wider - think epic and beyond).  My view however, on an undertaking is quite simple.  You do the work necessary to get something that addresses part of the bigger picture. Some people call this the MVP (Minimum viable product).  Sometimes this can be too big and could potentially be a huge waste of time.  Whether you're providing solutions to the enterprise or external paying customers, you must release and test regularly to check if this is actually what your _customers_ want. I realise that this is common sense but if you take an age to create then release it and nobody is willing to use/pay for it then it's a massive waste of time and money and it could easily drive you out of business.  I've seen this play out too many times to mention.  If you release small features often, you keep the interest and curiosity of your customers.

Recently, there was a situation that we as Engineers we didn't like.  In short, the teams velocity wasn't being fairly reflected because of blockers and work rolling into the next sprint.  Story points would magically disappear.  This observation and evolution stared emotions from several quarters.  Thankfully, we have a robust and effective Engineer and Head of Delivery whom happens to be the Scrum Master for a Team I'm currently assigned too.  He, without being prompted instinctively knew there was an issue and overnight came up with a solution which was the delight of the team's Tech Lead and associated team members.  At the same time, due to the framework we operate in, were able to come up with another solution to a situation that was getting out of hand... As a team, we were getting thrashed by requirements.  We were completing more than planned meaning we'd dip into the backlog before the end of the current sprint.  Although perceived as kudos, it didn't leave time for engineers to get closure on itches they needed to scratch, space for education and other heuristic related activities or time to evaluate and address architecture improvements.  As a positive consequence, having had a group discussion where everybody's voice was heard, we reached a positive resolution for both the business and the Engineering team.  In both of these situations explained here, the Definition of Done (DoD) was revised.

One thing I do feel strongly about is that the Scrum Master plays pivotal role.  It is a full time activity/occupation and this cannot be a role that in part is  the responsibility of a Tech Lead.  Knowing the importance of this role during the sprint, you can't have an Engineer being an Engineer as well as a Scrum Master.  If you're doing 'Scrum' right, then you need a dedicated Team SM. Otherwise, you're taking just way too much time away from your Tech Lead which isn't fair to them, the team or the business.

As part of the story creation process, after the story description (AS A, I WANT, SO THAT) we capture the Acceptance Criteria ('ACs' for short).  It is here where we detail what the story needs to satisfy into order for the story to be deemed completed by the Engineer.  A constant failing in this area is the lack of tests; or more appropriately, the  optimisation of tests.  Let's say you're a 'newbie'.  You have very little domain knowledge or understanding of the system you're now responsible for.  Tests added to the story would prove invaluable to this 'newbie'.  It will also provide guidance on how to prove that your work fits the bill, back creating adequate unit tests as well as helping with furthering your domain and system orientation.  This is always an issue, wherever I have worked.   

I also find framing the action and reason for a story helps. You start at that point to truly understand the implications of what you're encapsulating in this particular story. After all, to fully understand something  is to explain it to another, and you need to write about it. More often than not, if you can't type this description out in ~30 seconds, it's going to be decomposed in two or more stories.